Document the environment variables available in "okteto deploy" (#380)
okteto/docs: src/content/cloud/okteto-cli.mdx

      - .:/usr/src/app
```

This example shows how to [build](reference/manifest.mdx/#build-object-optional) the container image of the **api** microservice, how to [deploy](reference/manifest.mdx/#deploy-object-optional) the application using its helm chart,
and how to [develop](reference/manifest.mdx/#dev-object-optional) on the **api** microservice by synchronizing the local filesystem on the container path `/usr/src/app`.
If you want to learn more about what all you can configure in this manifest, head over to the [Okteto Manifest Reference](reference/manifest.mdx).

### Built-in Environment Variables

The installation job also populates the following environment variables. You can refer to this in your `deploy` commands if needed:
- `OKTETO_DOMAIN`: the domain where Okteto exposes your application endpoints.
- `OKTETO_NAMESPACE`: the namespace where your application is going to be installed.
- `OKTETO_USERNAME`: your username in Okteto.
- `OKTETO_REGISTRY_URL`: the url of the [Okteto Registry](cloud/registry.mdx).
- `OKTETO_GIT_BRANCH`: the name of the Git branch currently being deployed.
- `OKTETO_GIT_COMMIT`: the SHA1 hash of the last commit of the branch.

> You can share environment variables between steps by adding them to `$OKTETO_ENV`:

Reviewer: I think this flow is odd. Could we first talk about build and the env vars available before talking about OKTETO ENV?

Author: @rberrelleza so you mean moving this paragraph to the end?

```

This example shows how to [build](reference/manifest.mdx/#build-object-optional) the container image of the **api** microservice, how to [deploy](reference/manifest.mdx/#deploy-object-optional) the application using its helm chart,
and how to [develop](reference/manifest.mdx/#dev-object-optional) on the **api** microservice by synchronizing the local filesystem on the container path `/usr/src/app`.
If you want to learn more about what all you can configure in this manifest, head over to the [Okteto Manifest Reference](reference/manifest.mdx).

### Built-in Environment Variables

#### Default Environment Variables

The following environment variables are automatically populated to be referred in your Okteto Manifest or deploy/destroy commands:
- `OKTETO_DOMAIN`: the domain where Okteto exposes your application endpoints.
- `OKTETO_NAMESPACE`: the namespace where your application is going to be installed.
- `OKTETO_USERNAME`: your username in Okteto.
- `OKTETO_REGISTRY_URL`: the url of the [Okteto Registry](cloud/registry.mdx).
- `OKTETO_GIT_BRANCH`: the name of the Git branch currently being deployed.
- `OKTETO_GIT_COMMIT`: the SHA1 hash of the last commit of the branch.

> #### Build Environment Variables

Reviewer: The name 'Build Environment Variables' doesn't clearly explain what they represent. Do we need a separate section?  
```suggestion
#### Built-in Environment Variables for Images stored in the Okteto Registry
```

> In order to refer to images in the [build](reference/manifest.mdx/#build-object-optional) section of the Okteto Manifest, you can use the following environment variables:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can refer to the images defined in the [build](reference/manifest.mdx/#build-object-optional) section of the Okteto Manifest using the following environment variables:
```

- `OKTETO_BUILD_<image>_IMAGE`: the full image reference
- `OKTETO_BUILD_<image>_REGISTRY`: the registry URL where the image was pushed
- `OKTETO_BUILD_<image>_REPOSITORY`: the name of the image that was pushed
- `OKTETO_BUILD_<image>_SHA`: The latest tag and the SHA of the image

> For example, if the image `hello-world` has built the following image tag`registry.cloud.okteto.net/cindy/hello-world:okteto`, you would have the following values:

Reviewer: I think we should include the okteto manifest (or at least the build section) on the example so it's clearer

- `OKTETO_BUILD_HELLO_WORLD_IMAGE`: registry.cloud.okteto.net/cindy/hello-world@sha256:xxx
- `OKTETO_BUILD_HELLO_WORLD_REGISTRY`: registry.cloud.okteto.net
- `OKTETO_BUILD_HELLO_WORLD_REPOSITORY`: cindy/hello-world
- `OKTETO_BUILD_HELLO_WORLD_SHA`: okteto@sha256:xxx

> if an `<image>` name includes the symbol `-`, in the corresponding `OKTETO_BUILD_<image>` environment variables, the symbol `-` will be replaced by `_`.  For example, if `<image>` is `name-with-hyphen`, the environment variable names will start with `$OKTETO_BUILD_NAME_WITH_HYPHEN_`.

> #### Dependencies Environment Variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Built-in Environment Variables for Dependencies
```

> In order to refer to variables of [dependencies](reference/manifest.mdx/#dependencies-object-optional) you can use the following environment variables:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can refer to the variables defined by your [dependencies](reference/manifest.mdx/#dependencies-object-optional) using the following environment variables:
```

- `OKTETO_DEPENDENCY_<dependency>_VARIABLE_<variable>`: the value of a variable of a dependency.

> For example, if you have a dependency to https://github.com/okteto/my-database, and https://github.com/okteto/my-database has the following Okteto Manifest:

Reviewer: I think we should include a minimalistic (but functional) manifest for both the dependency and the caller of the dependency instead of this description so it's clearer.

- `OKTETO_BUILD_HELLO_WORLD_REPOSITORY`: cindy/hello-world
- `OKTETO_BUILD_HELLO_WORLD_SHA`: okteto@sha256:xxx

In order to refer to endpoints of [external resources](reference/manifest.mdx/#external-object-optional) you can use the following environment variables:
- `OKTETO_EXTERNAL_<external>_ENDPOINTS_<endpoint>_URL`: the URL of an endpoint of an external resource.

> In order to refer to endpoints/variables of [dependencies](reference/manifest.mdx/#dependencies-object-optional) you can use the following environment variables:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to refer to variables of [dependencies](reference/manifest.mdx/#dependencies-object-optional) you can use the following environment variables:
```
I think to refer to endpoints we only can use the above example

- `OKTETO_DEPENDENCY_<dependency>_VARIABLE_<variable>`: the value of a variable of a dependency.

> - `OKTETO_DEPENDENCY_<dependency>_EXTERNAL_<external>_ENDPOINTS_<endpoint>_URL`: the URL of an endpoint of an external resource.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `OKTETO_DEPENDENCY_<dependency>_VARIABLE_OKTETO_EXTERNAL_<external>_ENDPOINTS_<endpoint>_URL`: the URL of an endpoint of an external resource.
```
ATM we only can consume vars from a external in a dependency from main using this notation, assuming external endpoint has been added to `OKTETO_ENV`

Author: I don't follow your sample, could you share a full sample?

Author: I think to refer the endpoint of an external resource of a dependency, the notation should be the one I was documenting

Reviewer 2: > I don't follow your sample, could you share a full sample?

you can see the current behavior (once fixes are marged) using the following dependency: 
````yaml
dependencies:
  depend:
    repository: https://github.com/okteto/go-getting-started
    branch: generating-dynamic-envs
    variables:
      CMNAME: development
      CMDATA: hello world
    wait: true
````

This dependency has the following deploy section:
````yaml
deploy:
  - echo "OKTETO_EXTERNAL_DATABASE_ENDPOINTS_DB_URL=https://localhost:3306" >> $OKTETO_ENV
  - echo "MY_DYNAMIC_APP_ENV=hello world!" >> $OKTETO_ENV
  - kubectl apply -f k8s.yml
````
so the dependency variables available in the main pipeline will be the following:
`````env
OKTETO_DEPENDENCY_DEPEND_VARIABLE_CMDATA=hello world
OKTETO_DEPENDENCY_DEPEND_VARIABLE_OKTETO_EXTERNAL_DATABASE_ENDPOINTS_DB_URL=https://localhost:3306
OKTETO_DEPENDENCY_DEPEND_VARIABLE_CMNAME=development
OKTETO_DEPENDENCY_DEPEND_VARIABLE_MY_DYNAMIC_APP_ENV=hello world!
`````
for the moment we can only use of the variables related to the endpoints of an external using the format `OKTETO_DEPENDENCY_<dependency-name>_VARIABLE_<external-endpoint-variable-name>` if this variable has been generated and stored in `OKTETO_ENV`

Reviewer 2: > I think to refer the endpoint of an external resource of a dependency, the notation should be the one I was documenting

> OKTETO_DEPENDENCY_<dependency>_EXTERNAL_<external>_ENDPOINTS_<endpoint>_URL

I will add your suggestion to the issue created for that feature https://github.com/okteto/okteto/issues/3599

### Built-in Tools When Deploying To Okteto

When deploying your development environment, Okteto executes the sequence of `deploy` commands.

> The commands run in a Debian Linux container with the following tools preinstalled:

Reviewer: This is only the case if the deploy.image is not defined right?

Author: It's mentioned a little later in this section, would you move it here?

Reviewer: let's put it on both parts

- `openssh`
- `wait-for-it`

> You can also configure your own [container image](reference/manifest.mdx/#deploy-remotely) to excute your `deploy` commands.

Reviewer: It's not clear why this is useful. Maybe add that this is the way to include other tools?

Author: Right, I will explain the use case
